# Entry 4
##### 3/16/25

Nearing our due date of our Minimum Viable Product (MVP), my group decided that we needed to start "creating a prototype" of our project in the engineering design process. I first made a tilemap of 40x40 for my map and added a layer of trees so we can have a basic layout of what our project will look like. I also created icons for the player and the two buildings that we were going to use for our project. One part that was very annoying was placing each individual tree. I needed to copy each tree and make sure the layering of the trees were correct to they would not replace eachother. Here is an example of the map I made:

[Image](image_2025-05-01_142723304.png)

Using [this tutorial](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GiZuWjXmvcc), I created added collisions to my tilemap on the borders. This way, my character would not be able to leave the map. I also added collisions to the trees but this was a struggle because it worked slightly differently to the other collision polygon that godot uses. Instead, I needed to select the tiles and place a collision map on top of each specific tile. This way, I don't need to place a tile collision for every individual tile. It was very difficult to get this correct because I also noticed that my character would walk on top of the trees instead of around it. To fix this, I realised I needed to seperate the tilemap layer of the leaves and the trunk. I tried many differen things but such as changing the y layer but the thing that worked for me was changing the z-layer. This z-layer determined how front or back the layer was from the top and I placed my leaves at the very top so the player can go behind the leaves and behind the trees. It was weird to change the layering because I had to keep track of all the layers I put for each. In the end, the floor layer was layer 0, the trunks were layer 1, the player was layer 3 and the leaves were layer 4. This made it so the player would walk around the trees and it successfully added the collisions. 

Some skills I developed were organization and creativity. I developed organization because at the start, we had a lot of files and ideas that we wanted for our project. However, we needed to go slowly and one step at a time in order for this project to be possible. There were a lot of files in our system such as my models, the start of our code script for the player and the code for our building. These were never a consideration when doing my project my previous years so I definetly strongly developed these skills. I also developed creativity because I was thinking about ways for our project to stand out. We didn't want to over complicate our game and make the code impossible so we came up with creative strategies to develop our script. 

[Previous](entry03.md) | [Next](entry05.md)

[Home](../README.md)
